---
title: HashMap
permalink: hashmap
excerpt: Notes on Hashmap
---

## What is a hash?

> A "hash" is a function hh referred to as hash function that takes as input objects and outputs a string or number. The input objects are usually members of basic data types like strings, integers, or bigger ones composed of other objects like user defined structures. The output is a typically a number or a string. The noun "hash" often refers to this output. The verb "hash" often means "apply a hash function". The main properties that a hash function should have are:
> 
> 1. It should be easy to compute and
> 2. The outputs should be relatively small.
> 
> Example:
> 
> Say we want to hash numbers in the range from `0` to `999,999,999` to number between `0` and `99`. One simple hash function can be `h(x) = x mod 100`.

> A hash function is a function that takes an input and produces a value of fixed size.

> A hash function is any function that can be used to map data of arbitrary size to data of fixed size.

> The values returned by a hash function are called hash values, hash codes, digests, or simply hashes. One use is a data structure called a hash table, widely used in computer software for rapid data lookup. Hash functions accelerate table or database lookup by detecting duplicated records in a large file. An example is finding similar stretches in DNA sequences. They are also useful in cryptography. A cryptographic hash function allows one to easily verify that some input data maps to a given hash value, but if the input data is unknown, it is deliberately difficult to reconstruct it (or equivalent alternatives) by knowing the stored hash value. This is used for assuring integrity of transmitted data, and is the building block for HMACs, which provide message authentication.

> ### Bloom Filters
>
> Hash functions are an essential ingredient of the Bloom filter, a space-efficient probabilistic data structure that is used to test whether an element is a member of a set.

> ### Heap
>
> In computer science, a heap is a specialized tree-based data structure that satisfies the heap property: if P is a parent node of C, then the key (the value) of node P is greater than the key of node C. A heap can be classified further as either a "max heap" or a "min heap". In a max heap, the keys of parent nodes are always greater than or equal to those of the children and the highest key is in the root node. In a min heap, the keys of parent nodes are less than or equal to those of the children and the lowest key is in the root node.

## References

- [What exactly (and precisely) is “hash?”](https://cs.stackexchange.com/questions/55471/what-exactly-and-precisely-is-hash/55472)
- [Hash Function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash_function)
- [Hash Table](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash_table)
- [Rabin–Karp algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rabin%E2%80%93Karp_algorithm)
- [Heap (data structure)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heap_(data_structure))